Add Python release process (#241)
hubverse-org/hubDocs: docs/source/developer/release-process.md

R-Universe is not the official R package index—CRAN is. If you want to release
a package to CRAN, it's a relatively straightforward process that takes five
minutes on your part as the maintainer.

The time between sending your package to CRAN and the time it becomes available
to the public usually ranges anywhere from 30 minutes to two or three days,
depending on volume and feedback from CRAN maintainers. Because CRAN submissions
are often a back and forth process, you should not tag your release until you
have confirmed that CRAN has accepted the submission.

Some tips for CRAN submissions:

- Your first submission will likely take the longest (see [Chapter 22 of R Packages by Wickham and Bryan](https://r-pkgs.org/release.html#sec-release-initial))
- Don't use the webform; use [`devtools::release()`](https://devtools.r-lib.org/reference/release.html)
- Remove the `Remotes:` items in the DESCRIPTION with:

    ```sh
    sed -i '' -E -e '/(Remotes:|  hubverse-org)/d' DESCRIPTION
    ```

(you will restore this later with  `git restore DESCRIPTION`). [^uncommitted]

- Commit the `CRAN_SUBMISSION` file when it changes
- There is a missing stair that can make submissions unpleasant.

> If you get a nasty review from Ripley, contact one of the other hubverse maintainers for backup/strategy/comiseration.

Reviewer: As English is not my first language, I am not sure I understand everything here except that you might have an issue during the review process?

Author: As a R is not my first language, I also found this a bit hard to parse 😄 

What about.....

```suggestion

> [!TIP]
> If you get an unhelpful or nasty review from a CRAN admin, contact one of the other Hubverse maintainers for backup/strategy/commiseration.

```

Reviewer: Well the main issue I got was the "missing stair" part and who is Ripley? 

Maybe replacing this part with something like:
```suggestion
If you get a negative review or any issues, feel free to contact one of the other hubverse maintainers for any help.
```

Reviewer 2: Sorry about that. That's a relatively recent term that I introduced in the docs and I appreciate you pointing this out, Lucie. 

For context, a missing stair is a metaphor for a community member who is known to be problematic: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Missing_stair

Ripley is an R core team member widely known to be one of these people because his replies are often unhelpful and sometimes spiteful and mean. There's work to make the submission process more transparent by the R contributor group https://contributor.r-project.org, but yeah, his comments are bad enough that there's a term for that: "Ripleyed" 

Here's my suggestion for this as a new resource recently emerged. And note, I'm putting myself as a specific person to talk to because I have over a decade of experience submitting to CRAN and have been Ripleyed more than once. 

```suggestion

:::{tip}
If you get an unhelpful or nasty review from a CRAN administrator, contact one of the other Hubverse maintainers who has experience submitting to CRAN (i.e. Zhian) for backup/strategy/comiseration. You can also see if you ran into a common issue by checking [The CRAN Cookbook](https://contributor.r-project.org/cran-cookbook/)
:::

```

Reviewer: Thank you very much for the explanation and I like the new suggestions!

The strategy is three-fold:

- All packages in development are tested against development packages. It is
important to remember that development versions must also not introduce
breaking changes. Testing breaking changes should be performed in a separate
branch.
- On a release/hotfix, pull request, all packages are tested against the
released packages to ensure no regressions.
- All packages (released and devel) are tested weekly. This helps to avoid
surprise reverse-dependency problems.

### R Testing

For R packages, testing against the development versions is achieved by setting
[the `Remotes:` section in your DESCRIPTION file](https://r-pkgs.org/dependencies-in-practice.html#sec-dependencies-nonstandard);
this ensures that when dependencies are installed for the GitHub workflow run,
the hubverse dependencies are installed from GitHub and not the R-universe.

During releases and hotfixes (detected by checking that the branch name
contains either `/release/` or  `/hotfix/`, the remote declarations of hubverse
packages are removed (before the dependencies are installed) with the command
`sed -i "" -E -e '/[ ][ ]hubverse-org/d' DESCRIPTION`.

> [r-universe]: https://hubverse-org.r-universe.dev/'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[r-universe]: https://hubverse-org.r-universe.dev/
```
